# Google Classroom AutoGrader | step25-2020

This repo contains the source code for the STEP capstone project of Ben, Mahima, and Sampson.

One big change we’re seeing right now (2020) is schools all over the country are being moved to an online format this Fall due to the Global COVID-19 Pandemic. With the large majority of teachers shifting to teaching classes online. However, teachers are already overworked, oftentimes working 51-53 hours weeks on average, with 25-35% of their time being spent on planning and grading. We can expect this amount to increase as teachers have to grade online submissions. Not only will this newly arising situation possibly lead to teachers spending more time grading, consuming even more time than before, but also difficulty adapting as many teachers still use the assignment worksheets format for students as seen in primary and secondary education. Grading these digital submissions may also prove to be an increased challenge as more than 50% of teachers are aged 40+ years, meaning the average teacher may also be technologically challenged to some noticeable extent, struggling with navigating the web and using online platforms to the fullest.
 
Currently, Google Classroom has integrated Google Drive and Forms, allowing teachers to automatically score multiple choice questions. However, short answer response questions still need to be graded manually by a teacher. Auto-grading is also not supported with student worksheets at the moment. The scope of this project would be to gather student submissions from an instructor’s Google Classroom on individual assignments. The application would then allow the teacher to indicate the area on a worksheet where student responses are expected to appear. It will then parse all submissions for the assignment question and sort similar responses into buckets. This would then allow the teacher to grade all similar responses within a bucket at once, greatly reducing the amount of time teachers spend on grading, by assigning a point value for all similar submissions rather than assigning a grade value for each individual submission. This application also intends to allow the teacher to download all student grades, manually re-sort buckets where the Google Vision API makes a mistake in classifying submissions, as well as export grades back to Google Classroom.
